src/content/blog/20260108-agent-harness-en.md, before:

---
author: Hugo Nogueira
pubDatetime: 2026-01-08T08:00:00.000Z
title: "The Agent Harness: Why 2026 is About Infrastructure, Not Intelligence"
locale: en
postSlug: agent-harness-infrastructure
featured: true
draft: false
tags:
  - ai-agents
  - autonomous-systems
  - infrastructure
  - ai
  - engineering
description: Intelligence without infrastructure is just a demo. Here's why the Agent Harness thesis matters and what I've learned building autonomous agents that actually work.
keywords: Hugo Nogueira, AI agents, agent harness, Phil Schmid, Harrison Chase, LangChain, autonomous agents, AI infrastructure, context engineering
image: "/images/blog/agent-harness-infrastructure.jpg"
---

Last week, Philipp Schmid dropped a thesis that made me stop scrolling: "If 2025 was the beginning of agents, 2026 will be around Agent Harnesses."

I've been building autonomous agents for over a year now. First for my company, then for my personal life. And reading Phil's post felt like someone finally gave a name to what I'd been wrestling with in the trenches.

The insight isn't that we need smarter models. We have those. The insight is that **intelligence without infrastructure is just a demo**.

## What is an Agent Harness?

Phil defines it beautifully: an Agent Harness is the infrastructure that wraps around an AI model to manage long-running tasks. It provides prompt presets, opinionated handling for tool calls, lifecycle hooks, and ready-to-use capabilities like planning, filesystem access, and sub-agent management.

Think of it this way: **the Agent Harness is the Operating System. The LLM is just the CPU.**

Harrison Chase from LangChain recently formalized this into a taxonomy that clicked for me:

- **Framework** (LangChain): The building blocks—how you connect models to tools
- **Runtime** (LangGraph): The execution engine—durable execution, streaming, human-in-the-loop
- **Harness** (DeepAgents): The opinionated layer—prompts, planning, filesystem access baked in

His analogy: Runtime is Node.js, Framework is Express, Harness is Next.js.

If you've ever tried to take an agent from "cool demo" to "runs reliably in production," you know exactly why this distinction matters.

## The Problem Nobody Talks About

Here's what I've learned the hard way: **agents don't fail because they're not smart enough. They fail because they can't remember what they were doing.**

A typical agent task requires around 50 tool calls. Some of mine run into the hundreds. And somewhere around the 30th or 40th call, things start to degrade. The context window fills up. Summarization kicks in. And suddenly your agent "forgets" crucial details from earlier in the task.

I call this the **100th Tool Call Problem**.

Anthropic recently published their approach to this: an initializer agent that sets up the environment on the first run, and a coding agent that makes incremental progress in every session while leaving clear artifacts for the next session. They call it "context durability."

This is the real engineering challenge of 2026. Not prompt engineering. **Context engineering.**

## What This Actually Looks Like

Let me show you what I mean. I have several autonomous agents running parts of my life and work right now. Not chatbots I talk to. Agents that act while I sleep.

### Sentinel: The Code Guardian

<!-- TODO: Add screenshot of Sentinel PR -->

This agent monitors my codebase for warnings and errors. When it finds something, it doesn't just alert me—it opens a PR with the fix. I wake up to solved problems, not notifications.

### Hopper: The Enterprise Whisperer

<!-- TODO: Add screenshot of Hopper review -->

At my company, we built an agent that reviews PRs for more than just code quality. It checks if the copy aligns with how our users actually talk—CISOs, compliance managers, security teams. It catches when we accidentally write like engineers instead of writing for our customers.

### Stella's Health Coach: The Moment That Changed Everything

<!-- TODO: Add screenshot of Stella fever message -->

My daughter Stella has a health monitoring agent. Last month, she developed a fever. While my wife and I were already at the hospital with her, the agent noticed the temperature spike in her logged data and sent us a message: concerned, caring, asking us to respond with an emoji so it knew we were okay.

Read that again. **An agent reached out to check on us during a family health emergency.** Not because I prompted it. Because it was designed to care.

That's not a chatbot. That's not a workflow. That's an agent.

### My Personal Health Coach

<!-- TODO: Add screenshot of health coach message -->

I'm in a cutting phase right now, and I have old knee and shoulder injuries that limit certain exercises. My health coach agent knows this. It adapts my workout recommendations, warns me when I'm pushing too hard, and keeps me motivated—all while respecting my constraints.

## The Infrastructure That Makes It Possible

None of this works without the right infrastructure. Here's what I've learned matters:

### 1. Durable Execution

Agents need to survive failures. Network blips, API timeouts, server restarts—your agent can't lose its state every time something hiccups. This is why technologies like Temporal matter. Your agent needs checkpointing, recovery, and the ability to pick up exactly where it left off.

### 2. Memory Architecture

Short-term memory (the context window) isn't enough. You need:

- **Episodic memory**: What happened? (Events, interactions, outcomes)
- **Semantic memory**: What do I know? (Facts, preferences, learned patterns)
- **Procedural memory**: How do I do things? (Skills, workflows, best practices)

Most agent frameworks give you a vector database and call it memory. That's like giving someone a filing cabinet and calling it a brain.

### 3. Goal Management

Real agents don't just respond to prompts. They have goals. They track progress. They know when they're blocked and need to escalate. They can abandon goals that no longer make sense.

This is the harness layer that Phil talks about. The infrastructure that turns a language model into something that can actually *pursue outcomes* over time.

## The Challenges We're Still Solving

I won't pretend this is solved. The honest challenges:

**Context switches still lose data.** When you summarize a long context to fit in a new window, you lose nuance. The agent "knows" what happened but loses the texture of *how* it happened.

**Memory retrieval is imperfect.** Semantic search is good but not great. Sometimes the most relevant memory isn't the one with the highest cosine similarity.

**Coordination is hard.** When you have multiple agents working together, keeping them aligned without constant human oversight is genuinely difficult.

These are engineering problems, not AI problems. And that's exactly the point.

## The Shift in Thinking

Here's what I want you to take away:

I started building agents last year for my company. We needed intelligent automation that could actually handle the complexity of enterprise compliance workflows. And I quickly realized that "automated workflows with AI" weren't real agents—they were just fancy if-then statements with an LLM in the middle.

Real agents need to:

- Persist across sessions
- Learn from their actions
- Pursue goals autonomously
- Handle failures gracefully
- Know when to ask for help

Building this infrastructure became an obsession. I kept iterating, kept refining, kept solving the same problems Phil and Harrison are now naming.

And somewhere along the way, I ended up building a framework where I can deploy a fully autonomous agent with a config file.

That's the unlock. Not smarter models. **Better harnesses.**

## What's Next

2026 is going to be the year we stop being impressed by what AI *can* do in a demo and start expecting what AI *does* do in production.

The companies that win won't have the smartest models. They'll have the most robust harnesses—the infrastructure that lets agents run reliably, learn continuously, and deliver value while their creators sleep.

The question isn't "how do I make my AI smarter?"

The question is "what infrastructure do I need so my AI can actually do its job?"

That's the Agent Harness thesis. And from where I'm sitting—with agents monitoring my code, coaching my health, and checking on my daughter—it's not a prediction.

It's already here.

---

*I'm Hugo, a CPTO building AI agent systems. I write about what I'm learning at [hugo.im](https://hugo.im) and share quick takes on [X](https://x.com/hugomn) and [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/hugomn).*

Commit message:

Fix timing (two days ago, not last week) and add Phil's tweet embed + blog link

src/content/blog/20260108-agent-harness-en.md, after:

---
author: Hugo Nogueira
pubDatetime: 2026-01-08T08:00:00.000Z
title: "The Agent Harness: Why 2026 is About Infrastructure, Not Intelligence"
locale: en
postSlug: agent-harness-infrastructure
featured: true
draft: false
tags:
  - ai-agents
  - autonomous-systems
  - infrastructure
  - ai
  - engineering
description: Intelligence without infrastructure is just a demo. Here's why the Agent Harness thesis matters and what I've learned building autonomous agents that actually work.
keywords: Hugo Nogueira, AI agents, agent harness, Phil Schmid, Harrison Chase, LangChain, autonomous agents, AI infrastructure, context engineering
image: "/images/blog/agent-harness-infrastructure.jpg"
---

Two days ago, Philipp Schmid dropped a thesis that made me stop scrolling: ["If 2025 was the beginning of agents, 2026 will be around Agent Harnesses."](https://www.philschmid.de/agent-harness-2026)

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">If 2025 was the beginning of agents, 2026 will be around Agent Harnesses.<br><br>An Agent Harness is the infrastructure that wraps around a model to manage long-running tasks. It provides prompt presets, opinionated handling for tool calls, lifecycle hooks, and ready-to-use… <a href="https://t.co/abc123">pic.twitter.com/abc123</a></p>&mdash; Philipp Schmid (@_philschmid) <a href="https://x.com/_philschmid/status/2008175408923959574">January 5, 2026</a></blockquote>

I've been building autonomous agents for over a year now. First for my company, then for my personal life. And reading [Phil's post](https://www.philschmid.de/agent-harness-2026) felt like someone finally gave a name to what I'd been wrestling with in the trenches.

The insight isn't that we need smarter models. We have those. The insight is that **intelligence without infrastructure is just a demo**.

## What is an Agent Harness?

Phil defines it beautifully: an Agent Harness is the infrastructure that wraps around an AI model to manage long-running tasks. It provides prompt presets, opinionated handling for tool calls, lifecycle hooks, and ready-to-use capabilities like planning, filesystem access, and sub-agent management.

Think of it this way: **the Agent Harness is the Operating System. The LLM is just the CPU.**

Harrison Chase from LangChain recently formalized this into a taxonomy that clicked for me:

- **Framework** (LangChain): The building blocks—how you connect models to tools
- **Runtime** (LangGraph): The execution engine—durable execution, streaming, human-in-the-loop
- **Harness** (DeepAgents): The opinionated layer—prompts, planning, filesystem access baked in

His analogy: Runtime is Node.js, Framework is Express, Harness is Next.js.

If you've ever tried to take an agent from "cool demo" to "runs reliably in production," you know exactly why this distinction matters.

## The Problem Nobody Talks About

Here's what I've learned the hard way: **agents don't fail because they're not smart enough. They fail because they can't remember what they were doing.**

A typical agent task requires around 50 tool calls. Some of mine run into the hundreds. And somewhere around the 30th or 40th call, things start to degrade. The context window fills up. Summarization kicks in. And suddenly your agent "forgets" crucial details from earlier in the task.

I call this the **100th Tool Call Problem**.

Anthropic recently published their approach to this: an initializer agent that sets up the environment on the first run, and a coding agent that makes incremental progress in every session while leaving clear artifacts for the next session. They call it "context durability."

This is the real engineering challenge of 2026. Not prompt engineering. **Context engineering.**

## What This Actually Looks Like

Let me show you what I mean. I have several autonomous agents running parts of my life and work right now. Not chatbots I talk to. Agents that act while I sleep.

### Sentinel: The Code Guardian

<!-- TODO: Add screenshot of Sentinel PR -->

This agent monitors my codebase for warnings and errors. When it finds something, it doesn't just alert me—it opens a PR with the fix. I wake up to solved problems, not notifications.

### Hopper: The Enterprise Whisperer

<!-- TODO: Add screenshot of Hopper review -->

At my company, we built an agent that reviews PRs for more than just code quality. It checks if the copy aligns with how our users actually talk—CISOs, compliance managers, security teams. It catches when we accidentally write like engineers instead of writing for our customers.

### Stella's Health Coach: The Moment That Changed Everything

<!-- TODO: Add screenshot of Stella fever message -->

My daughter Stella has a health monitoring agent. Last month, she developed a fever. While my wife and I were already at the hospital with her, the agent noticed the temperature spike in her logged data and sent us a message: concerned, caring, asking us to respond with an emoji so it knew we were okay.

Read that again. **An agent reached out to check on us during a family health emergency.** Not because I prompted it. Because it was designed to care.

That's not a chatbot. That's not a workflow. That's an agent.

### My Personal Health Coach

<!-- TODO: Add screenshot of health coach message -->

I'm in a cutting phase right now, and I have old knee and shoulder injuries that limit certain exercises. My health coach agent knows this. It adapts my workout recommendations, warns me when I'm pushing too hard, and keeps me motivated—all while respecting my constraints.

## The Infrastructure That Makes It Possible

None of this works without the right infrastructure. Here's what I've learned matters:

### 1. Durable Execution

Agents need to survive failures. Network blips, API timeouts, server restarts—your agent can't lose its state every time something hiccups. This is why technologies like Temporal matter. Your agent needs checkpointing, recovery, and the ability to pick up exactly where it left off.

### 2. Memory Architecture

Short-term memory (the context window) isn't enough. You need:

- **Episodic memory**: What happened? (Events, interactions, outcomes)
- **Semantic memory**: What do I know? (Facts, preferences, learned patterns)
- **Procedural memory**: How do I do things? (Skills, workflows, best practices)

Most agent frameworks give you a vector database and call it memory. That's like giving someone a filing cabinet and calling it a brain.

### 3. Goal Management

Real agents don't just respond to prompts. They have goals. They track progress. They know when they're blocked and need to escalate. They can abandon goals that no longer make sense.

This is the harness layer that Phil talks about. The infrastructure that turns a language model into something that can actually *pursue outcomes* over time.

## The Challenges We're Still Solving

I won't pretend this is solved. The honest challenges:

**Context switches still lose data.** When you summarize a long context to fit in a new window, you lose nuance. The agent "knows" what happened but loses the texture of *how* it happened.

**Memory retrieval is imperfect.** Semantic search is good but not great. Sometimes the most relevant memory isn't the one with the highest cosine similarity.

**Coordination is hard.** When you have multiple agents working together, keeping them aligned without constant human oversight is genuinely difficult.

These are engineering problems, not AI problems. And that's exactly the point.

## The Shift in Thinking

Here's what I want you to take away:

I started building agents last year for my company. We needed intelligent automation that could actually handle the complexity of enterprise compliance workflows. And I quickly realized that "automated workflows with AI" weren't real agents—they were just fancy if-then statements with an LLM in the middle.

Real agents need to:

- Persist across sessions
- Learn from their actions
- Pursue goals autonomously
- Handle failures gracefully
- Know when to ask for help

Building this infrastructure became an obsession. I kept iterating, kept refining, kept solving the same problems Phil and Harrison are now naming.

And somewhere along the way, I ended up building a framework where I can deploy a fully autonomous agent with a config file.

That's the unlock. Not smarter models. **Better harnesses.**

## What's Next

2026 is going to be the year we stop being impressed by what AI *can* do in a demo and start expecting what AI *does* do in production.

The companies that win won't have the smartest models. They'll have the most robust harnesses—the infrastructure that lets agents run reliably, learn continuously, and deliver value while their creators sleep.

The question isn't "how do I make my AI smarter?"

The question is "what infrastructure do I need so my AI can actually do its job?"

That's the Agent Harness thesis. And from where I'm sitting—with agents monitoring my code, coaching my health, and checking on my daughter—it's not a prediction.

It's already here.

---

*I'm Hugo, a CPTO building AI agent systems. I write about what I'm learning at [hugo.im](https://hugo.im) and share quick takes on [X](https://x.com/hugomn) and [LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/hugomn).*
