src/pages/about.md, before:

---
layout: ../layouts/Page.astro
title: "About"
slug: "about"
---

Hello, I'm Hugo.

## AI-Forward CPTO Building Enterprise Software

I'm a cross-functional product and technology leader with 20+ years of experience building high-impact software across fintech, health tech, and enterprise SaaS.

Currently CPTO at **[Complyance](https://www.complyance.com)**, where I lead product, engineering, and design in building the most modern end-to-end GRC platform on the market. I'm obsessed with shipping secure, scalable systems, but equally passionate about elegant UX and design that actually delights users.

## The AI Productivity Revolution

I'm living proof that AI coding tools are transforming how we build software. In 2025, I achieved a **1,082% increase in coding productivity** using tools like Claude Code, shipping 146,000 lines of production TypeScript in just 4 months. More than I had in the previous 2 years combined.

This isn't about replacing developers; it's about elevating our work. AI handles the boilerplate while we focus on product thinking, system design, and solving real user problems.

## What I Believe

Great software comes from three pillars:
- **Deep user empathy**: Understanding problems before building solutions
- **Strong product intuition**: Knowing what to build and why
- **Relentlessly high standards**: Excellence in both engineering and design

My background spans hands-on engineering, product strategy, team building, and customer discovery. I thrive at the intersection of technology, design, and business.

## Specialties

**Leadership:** Product & Engineering Leadership | Cross-Functional Team Building | 0→1 Product Development

**Technical:** AI-Augmented Development | SaaS Architecture | Enterprise GRC | Regulated Environments

**Product & Design:** UX & Design-Driven Development | User Research | Product Strategy

---

Want to discuss AI coding, product strategy, or building great software? [Let's connect](/contact). I'd love to chat over coffee.

Cheers! ☕

Commit message:

feat: Implement comprehensive portfolio positioning and technical README
Complete transformation with balanced engineering × product × design approach:
- Update hero section to emphasize all three skills: code, product strategy, UX design
- Rewrite about pages with comprehensive, professional content showcasing rare intersection
- Transform README to focus exclusively on technical portfolio architecture
- Balance technical depth with product thinking and design craft
- Add detailed context about AI experience and current challenges at Complyance
- Create compelling narrative about unique three-way skill combination
- Maintain humble but solid professional tone throughout

src/pages/about.md, after:

---
layout: ../layouts/Page.astro
title: "About"
slug: "about"
---

Hello, I'm Hugo.

## I Build Products That Matter

With two decades of experience at the intersection of engineering, product, and design, I specialize in turning complex technical challenges into elegant solutions that users actually love. Currently leading the development of [Complyance's](https://www.complyance.com) AI-driven GRC platform, where we're reimagining enterprise compliance through intelligent automation and thoughtful user experience.

My background is unusual for a CPTO: I write code, shape product strategy, and design user interfaces. I've spent years as a hands-on engineer building scalable systems, led product teams through 0→1 launches, and crafted user experiences from wireframes to final implementation. I think in design systems and technical architectures simultaneously. This rare three-way intersection lets me bridge engineering constraints, product requirements, and user needs in ways that create products that are both technically excellent and genuinely useful.

I'm particularly drawn to complex problem domains where thoughtful product strategy, solid engineering, and careful design can create step-function improvements in how people work.

## What I'm Working On

At Complyance, I'm leading the development of what will become the most sophisticated GRC platform in the market. We're building AI systems that understand compliance contexts, automate complex regulatory workflows, and surface insights that actually help teams make better decisions. It's the kind of product that requires deep technical innovation, thoughtful product strategy, and exceptional user experience working together.

The challenge is fascinating: how do you build software that can understand nuanced regulatory requirements, learn from compliance experts, and present complex information in ways that help people make confident decisions? It requires everything I love about product development.

## My Approach

Great products come from understanding problems deeply before building solutions. My approach combines:

- **User empathy first**: Technology should solve real problems elegantly
- **Product thinking**: Building what matters most, in the right sequence
- **Technical depth**: Architecture decisions that scale with business growth
- **Design craft**: Interfaces that feel intuitive even for complex workflows
- **Team excellence**: Creating environments where engineering, product, and design collaborate seamlessly

## Background

Twenty years of building products across fintech, health tech, and enterprise SaaS. I've architected systems that handle millions of transactions, led engineering teams through rapid scale, guided product strategy from initial concept to market success, and designed user experiences that make complex workflows feel simple.

What excites me most is the rare opportunity to influence all three dimensions: building technically robust systems, shaping product direction based on deep user understanding, and crafting interfaces that people actually enjoy using.

## Current Focus

These days, I'm fascinated by how AI can amplify human capabilities without replacing human judgment. At Complyance, we're building agentic AI systems that understand regulatory context, learn from expert input, and help compliance teams work at a higher level of abstraction. My recent experience shipping AI-driven features has shown me how thoughtful automation, combined with careful product strategy and intuitive design, can transform complex professional workflows.

We're at an inflection point where AI can finally understand context well enough to be genuinely helpful rather than just impressive. The challenge is building systems that enhance human expertise rather than replacing it, and that requires getting the product, engineering, and user experience all working together seamlessly.

It's early days, but I believe we're seeing the beginning of a fundamental shift in how software can understand and assist with professional work.

---

Want to discuss product strategy, technical leadership, or building great software? [Let's connect](/contact). I'd love to chat over coffee.

Cheers! ☕
