src/pages/talks.md, before:

---
layout: ../layouts/Page.astro
title: "Talks"
slug: "talks"
---

I have a special passion for sharing content, meeting new people, and contributing to the communities I am a part of. So I take great pleasure in speaking at conferences, meet-ups, internal events, or any other opportunity. If you would like me to speak at your event, please don't hesitate to get in touch. 👋🏻

## Current available talks

### Avoiding burnout as a software engineer 🇺🇸

A recent Gallup study found that about 2/3 of full-time workers experience burnout on the job. In this talk I clarify what is burnout and the myths around it, and try to give clear action points on how to avoid it as a software engineer and as a manager.

**Links**: [Post](https://www.hugo.im/blog/avoiding-burnout-as-a-software-engineer) | [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1263EGGzzQI4VQbbpo84kctB7FAhaeQhHDiz9AfHoBxE/edit?usp=sharing)

### How to develop reusable components with Babel and RollupJS 🇺🇸

In this talk I try to show, with a very simple example, the context of creating the concept of modules in JavaScript. I also did a live-coding session, showing how to create and publish reusable components. Full video at the end of the post.

**Links**: [Post](https://www.hugo.im/blog/how-to-develop-reusable-components-with-babel-and-rollupjs) | [Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/hugomn/how-to-develop-reusable-components-with-babel-and-rollup-dot-js) | [Recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dve_bYaAVZ0)

## Past talks

- [Inbound marketing - the new way of communicating with your customers 🇧🇷 (2016)](https://www.slideshare.net/hugomn/inbound-marketing-a-nova-forma-de-se-comunicar-e-conquistar-seus-clientes)
- [Knowing the foundations and developing a basic Angular 2 app 🇧🇷 (2016)](https://www.slideshare.net/hugomn/conhecendo-os-fundamentos-e-desenvolvendo-uma-apliao-bsica-com-angular2)
- [Entrepreneurship and Hidden Opportunities 🇧🇷 (2012)](https://www.slideshare.net/hugomn/empreendedorismo-e-as-oportunidades-disfaradas)
- [Introduction to Symfony 2 🇧🇷 (2012)](https://www.slideshare.net/hugomn/introduo-ao-symfony-2)
- [PHP application development using a high-productivity framework 🇧🇷 (2011)](https://www.slideshare.net/hugomn/symfony-framework-php-de-alta-produtividade)
- [Social Media for business 🇧🇷 (2011)](https://www.slideshare.net/hugomn/mdias-sociais-para-negcios)
- [SEO - How and why optimize a website 🇧🇷 (2010)](https://www.slideshare.net/hugomn/seo-como-e-porque-otimizar-um-website-semana-da-informtica-ufv)

Commit message:

feat: Update Talks page with AI coding assistants talk and reorganize content
- Add new talk: AI Coding Assistants at Scale (work in progress)
- Move 'How to develop reusable components' talk to past talks section
- Add structured Links sections for all past talks with slides/post/recording
- Update both English and Portuguese versions

src/pages/talks.md, after:

---
layout: ../layouts/Page.astro
title: "Talks"
slug: "talks"
---

I have a special passion for sharing content, meeting new people, and contributing to the communities I am a part of. So I take great pleasure in speaking at conferences, meet-ups, internal events, or any other opportunity. If you would like me to speak at your event, please don't hesitate to get in touch. 👋🏻

## Current available talks

### AI Coding Assistants at Scale: Building High-Performance Teams in the Age of AI 🇺🇸 *(Work in Progress)*

As teams rapidly adopt AI coding assistants, the difference between chaos and competitive advantage lies in thoughtful implementation. This talk explores practical strategies for integrating AI tools into engineering teams, covering centralized governance, security guardrails, productivity measurement, and creating team-wide best practices. Drawing from real-world experience shipping 146,000 lines of production code in 4 months, I'll share what actually works when scaling AI adoption across teams, including prompt engineering patterns, context management strategies, and how to maintain code quality while accelerating delivery. Perfect for engineering leaders, CTOs, and senior developers looking to transform their teams' productivity without sacrificing standards.

**Status**: *Currently being developed, but available for conferences interested in cutting-edge AI engineering practices*

### Avoiding burnout as a software engineer 🇺🇸

A recent Gallup study found that about 2/3 of full-time workers experience burnout on the job. In this talk I clarify what is burnout and the myths around it, and try to give clear action points on how to avoid it as a software engineer and as a manager.

**Links**: [Post](https://www.hugo.im/blog/avoiding-burnout-as-a-software-engineer) | [Slides](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1263EGGzzQI4VQbbpo84kctB7FAhaeQhHDiz9AfHoBxE/edit?usp=sharing)

## Past talks

### How to develop reusable components with Babel and RollupJS 🇺🇸 (2018)
In this talk I try to show, with a very simple example, the context of creating the concept of modules in JavaScript. I also did a live-coding session, showing how to create and publish reusable components.

**Links**: [Post](https://www.hugo.im/blog/how-to-develop-reusable-components-with-babel-and-rollupjs) | [Slides](https://speakerdeck.com/hugomn/how-to-develop-reusable-components-with-babel-and-rollup-dot-js) | [Recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Dve_bYaAVZ0)

### Inbound marketing - the new way of communicating with your customers 🇧🇷 (2016)
**Links**: [Slides](https://www.slideshare.net/hugomn/inbound-marketing-a-nova-forma-de-se-comunicar-e-conquistar-seus-clientes)

### Knowing the foundations and developing a basic Angular 2 app 🇧🇷 (2016)
**Links**: [Slides](https://www.slideshare.net/hugomn/conhecendo-os-fundamentos-e-desenvolvendo-uma-apliao-bsica-com-angular2)

### Entrepreneurship and Hidden Opportunities 🇧🇷 (2012)
**Links**: [Slides](https://www.slideshare.net/hugomn/empreendedorismo-e-as-oportunidades-disfaradas)

### Introduction to Symfony 2 🇧🇷 (2012)
**Links**: [Slides](https://www.slideshare.net/hugomn/introduo-ao-symfony-2)

### PHP application development using a high-productivity framework 🇧🇷 (2011)
**Links**: [Slides](https://www.slideshare.net/hugomn/symfony-framework-php-de-alta-produtividade)

### Social Media for business 🇧🇷 (2011)
**Links**: [Slides](https://www.slideshare.net/hugomn/mdias-sociais-para-negcios)

### SEO - How and why optimize a website 🇧🇷 (2010)
**Links**: [Slides](https://www.slideshare.net/hugomn/seo-como-e-porque-otimizar-um-website-semana-da-informtica-ufv)
